---
title: "Untitled"
date: 2020-11-25
---

In this part of the world, rocks look like the molars of giants. They are two storeys tall and must have fallen from the sky. At day, we walk along the gums of these stony fellows; at night, we eat zacusca de casa -- the Romanian spread pronounced with an Italian accent -- with sour dough. We cook canned lentil soup on the stove till the propane runs out, then we retreat into our canvass-based tent cabin. 

Trevor Noah says in one skit, "camping? I ain't going camping. I left South Africa so I wouldn't go camping -- no, I don't wanna sleep under the stars!".

Nonetheless, myself and two friends went camping last weekend. We came equipped with a "four season tent", food for the three of us, and the sense of adventure to top it off. Here's my take, though. Camping isn't really about the material reality of sleeping in a pile of canvass or the long walks you might take in the day. To me, it's about simplicity. The mere fact that you can get by with so little. That the "wild" isn't so unwelcoming once you've slept by its streams and ascended mountains in the valley and cooked food by a measly morning fire. 


Pinnacles National Park is equipped with massive boulders, narrow ledges, and a whole bunch of tourists navigating the rocky terrain. Everyone wants to be like Indiana Jones, and seeing the rocks makes me regret not bringing my lasso from home. We wandered around the park both with a map and rather aimlessly. There was no timeline nor agenda -- only the ~8 mile rim trail that encircles the beauty of the park.

On the first day, I could feel the mental baggage from everyday life. Worries and stresses weighed me down, racing through my mind so frequently even though now, I can't recall what was so urgent at the time. Unsurprisingly my presence, awareness and appreciation was affected. It only took a couple hours for me to be crying for Oreo soy-milk-shakes and some almond milk chocolate (none of that was available at the campsite).

Slowly, though, after a good night's sleep and the chance to soak in the setting, my mind began to clear. Before dinner, my belly hungry for nutrients, I took a slow walk to see the cabin-tents and RV's that flickers of life inside them. The setup on some RV's astounded me. They seemed largely used by old white men (like Grandpa in Ben 10), which I think is a fair hobby if you're in that state. The air that night was fresh and cold enough that it tingled my nostrils, a feeling I savored and had me walk back to the fire. No thoughts, head empty -- a quote I had seen before -- rang in my mind. In the middle of Pinnacles National Park that night, there was nothing to do but be, exist, and breath life in like that evening air. 

The following day we hiked some more. We talked more. We saw sight and climbed mountains and rocks and skirted around the parke


 

rocks are teethZacusca de Casa, Romanian w/ Italian accentmilitary baseoff-roading with the surreyapplying rawl's basic structuretrump protesters and anti-protesterscamping, no propane, fancy meals and shanty meals. appoino thoughts, head empty rings as my to-do list floats out of mindsketchy rocks, listening to chinese waiting for the electrical vehicle to arrivegetting out makes you remember why home is home. a bed. food.life is a marathonbasics are all we need, and in many ways all we have.experience > things.
